#L3CALC 

---

Locus (plural: loci) are a set of points that meet a certain condition.

For example (of a locus), when we take a circle, a circle has infinite amount of points that satisfy one condition:
> The points must have a distance $r$ from the center of the circle.

Another example of locus is a line. A linear line meets one condition too:
> The points must be on the the gradient of the line. 

---

In L3 Complex Numbers, locus questions come out at usually Excellence (sometimes Merit) level. In order to gain a high mark in locus questions is that we must follow the steps carefully. 

For example, in 2022 Complex Numbers (in Q1e): 
$$
|z+i|=2|z-5i|
$$
The following locus was given, where we were supposed to find the cartesian equation of the locus in the form: $$(x-a)^{2}+(y-b)^{2}=k^{2}$$
### Steps Explained:
1. First thing we do is we must write $z$ in another way. Whenever we are representing in a 'cartesian' equation, we have to know the $x$ and $y$ of the equation.

	In Complex Numbers, we have learnt that $z$ can be expressed in the form $x+yi$ (or $a+bi$, but we use $x+yi$ for locus questions for easier working). 
	
	We must write $z$ as $x+yi$ for the start: 
	$$
	|x+yi+i|=2|x+yi-5i|
	$$

2. Next thing we do is we look at the modulus (the absolute value signs). They represent the distance from the origin, and that equation can be modelled by: 
	$$
	r=\sqrt{ x^{2}+y^{2} }
	$$
	In that equation, when we switch that to the Argand plane, $x$ becomes the real term, and $y$ becomes the imaginary terms. In the question, we have both real AND imaginary terms inside the modulus. Now, we should group the real terms, and group the imaginary terms using a bracket: 
	$$
	|x+(y+1)i|=2|x+(y-5)i|
	$$
	Now, we can remove the absolute value signs by using the modulus formula: 
	$$
	\sqrt{ x^{2}+(y+1)^{2}}=2\sqrt{ x^{2}+(y-5)^{2} }
	$$

3. Next thing we should do is get rid of the square root, which can be done by squaring both sides: 
$$
x^{2}+(y+1)^{2}=4(x^{2}+(y-5)^{2})
$$

4. Now, we expand and simplify: 
	$$
	x^{2}+y^{2}+2y+1=4(x^{2}+y^{2}-10y+25)
	$$
	$$
	x^{2}+y^{2}+2y+1=4x^{2}+4y^{2}-40y+100
	$$
	$$
	-3x^{2}-3y^{2}+42y-99=0
	$$
	$$
	x^{2}+y^{2}-14y+33=0
	$$
	$$
	x^{2}+(y^{2}-14y+49)-49+33=0
	$$
	$$
	x^{2}+(y-7)^{2}=16
	$$

5. Now, we have the cartesian equation of a circle, in the form requested by the question.
	Although this would get us the Excellence mark, it's a good practice to state the center and radius of the locus (circle) we got:
	$$center:(0,7)$$ & $$radius=4$$

### Steps Summary:
1. Turn $z$ into $x+yi$
2. Group real terms by real terms, and imaginary terms by imaginary terms
3. Use square root to represent the modulus
4. Expand & simplify
5. State cartesian equation of locus